1. Each round shall consist of a three (3) minute duration, with a one (1) minute rest period between rounds.

2. The referee is the sole arbiter of a bout and is the only individual authorized to stop a contest. This rule shall not preclude a video or other review of a decision under the procedures of the applicable regulatory authority if a protest is filed claiming a clear rule violation.

3. All bouts will be evaluated and scored by three (3) judges.

4. The 10 Point Must System will be the standard system of scoring a bout.

5. The Mandatory Eight (8) Count after knockdowns will be standard procedure in all bouts.

6. All professional boxers are required to wear a mouthpiece during competition. The round cannot begin without the mouthpiece. If the mouthpiece is dislodged during competition, the referee will call time and have the mouthpiece replaced at the first opportune moment, without interfering with the immediate action. Points may be deducted by the referee if he feels the mouthpiece is being purposely spit out.

7. There is NO Standing Eight (8) Count.

8. There is NO Three (3) Knockdown Rule.

9. A boxer shall receive a twenty (20) second count if the boxer is knocked out of the ring. The boxer is to be unassisted by spectators or his/her seconds. If assisted by anyone, the boxer may lose points or be disqualified with such a decision being within the sole discretion of the referee.

10. A boxer who has been knocked down cannot be saved by the bell in any round.

11. If a boxer sustains an injury from a fair blow and the injury is severe enough to terminate the bout, the injured boxer shall lose by TKO.

12. Injuries sustained by Fouls:

A. Intentional Fouls

	If an intentional foul causes an injury, and the injury is severe enough to terminate the bout immediately, the boxer causing the injury shall lose by disqualification.
	If an intentional foul causes an injury and the bout is allowed to continue, the referee shall notify the authorities and deduct two
	(2) points from the boxer who caused the foul. Point deductions for intentional fouls will be mandatory.
	If an intentional foul causes an injury and the bout is allowed to continue, and the injury results in the bout being stopped in any
	round after the fourth (4th) round, the injured boxer will win by TECHNICAL DECISION if he is ahead on the score cards;
	and the bout will result in a TECHNICAL DRAW if the injured boxer is behind or even on the score cards.
	If the boxer injures himself while attempting to intentionally foul his opponent, the referee will not take any action in his favor, and this injury shall be the same as one produced by a fair blow.
	If the referee feels that a boxer has conducted himself in an unsportsmanlike manner, he may stop the bout and disqualify the boxer.

B. Accidental Fouls

	If an accidental foul causes an injury severe enough for the referee to stop the bout, the bout will result in a NO DECISION if stopped before four (4) completed rounds. Four (4) rounds are complete when the bell rings signifying the end of the fourth round.
	If an accidental foul causes an injury severe enough for the referee to stop the bout after four ( 4) rounds have occurred, the bout will result in a TECHNICAL DECISION awarded to the boxer who is ahead on the score cards at the time the bout is stopped.
	a. Partial or incomplete rounds will be scored. If no action has occurred, the round should be scored as an even round. This is at the discretion of the judges.

13. A fighter who is hit with an accidental low blow must continue after a reasonable amount of time but no more than five (5) minutes, or he/she will lose the fight.