Knockdowns and Knockouts:

A boxer shall be considered to be “down” when any part of their body, other than their feet are on the canvas or if they are hanging helplessly over the ropes as a result of a legal blow as rules by the Referee, who is the only person authorized to determine this, or if they are still rising from the down position and not standing upright.
The mandatory eight (8) count rule shall be in effect in all Universal Boxing Federation™ Championship bouts. No standing eight (8) is permitted. Three knockdowns in any one round do not automatically terminate the bout. If in the Referee’s judgment the knockdowns have been indecisive and clearly with no injurious effect upon the Boxer, the contest may be continued but with good sense and judgment and the Boxer’s welfare always paramount.
When the Contestant is knocked down, the Referee shall audibly announce the count as he motions with his right arm downward indicating the end of each sound of the count. If the Contestant taking the count is still down when the Referee calls the count of ten (10), the Referee shall wave both arms indicating that the Contestant has been knocked out.
When a Contestant has been knocked down, the Referee shall order the Opponent to the farthest neutral corner of the ring and pick up the count from the Timekeeper or the Official counting for knockdowns. Should the Opponent fail to stay in the corner as direct by the Referee, the Referee shall stop the count at the point that it was interrupted. In the event of any knockdown, the Timekeeper’s count will cease when picked up the Referee whose count shall prevail and be relied on by the Contestant.
A Contestant, who has been knocked out of the ring (body off the apron) as a result of a legal blow, may not be helped back in by their Corner people. The Referee shall allow the Contestant twenty (20) seconds to re-enter the ring and stand. Should the Contestant fail to re-enter the ring on his own by the allotted time, the Referee shall wave both arms to indicate that they have been knocked out and raise the hand of the opponent as the winner.
A Contestant may not be saved by the bell in any round. If a Contestant is down and the round has terminated, the Referee shall continue the count until the Contestant rises or is counted out. If a Contestant fails to rise before the count of ten (10), they shall be declared a loser by knockout in the round just concluded.
► Illegal Blows and Fouls:

It is expressly understood that a Championship contest is not to be terminated by the effects of a low blow. The protection that must be used by both Contestants is sufficient protection to withstand any so-call low blow which might incapacitate either one of the Contestants.
If one of the Contestants, after the Referee instructs them to continue, indicates an unwillingness to continue because of a claim of a low blow, the contest shall be terminated and the contest shall be awarded to their Opponent.
In case of any type of accident found, the Referee shall determine if the fouled Contestant can immediately continue or not. If the Referee determines that their chances have been jeopardized as a result of the foul, the Referee may order an interval of not more than five (5) minutes rest. The bout shall continue hereafter if caused by a low blow.
Any Contestant who deliberately fouls their Opponent during a contest shall be penalized with a deduction of points or disqualification, depending on the severity of harmlessness of the foul and its effect on the Opponent.
► Injuries:

Fair Blows
When an injury is produced by a fair blow and because the severity of the injury, the contest cannot continue, the injured boxer shall be declared the loser by technical knockout.
Self-sustained
If a boxer injures themselves, such as a broken bone or sprain and is unable to continue for any other self-sustained physical reason, they shall have lost by technical knockout.
Intentional Fouls
If a Contestant intentionally fouls their Opponent and as a result an injury is produced and due to the injury, in the Referee’s opinion the Contestant cannot continue, the offender shall be declared the loser by disqualification. If in the subsequent rounds the same injury should become so severe that the contest has to be suspended, the decision will be awarded as follows:
Technical draw, if the injured Boxer is behind on points or even on the score cards of the Judges.
Technical decision, if the injured Boxer is ahead on points on the score cards of the Judges.
Accidental Fouls
If the Referee sees or determines that a Boxer has been accidentally injured by their Opponent so that they cannot continue, a technical decision shall be awarded to the Contestant who is ahead in points on the scorecards.
If under the same circumstances the bout can continue, the Referee shall notify the Judges, the Commission, and the Universal Boxing Federation™ Commissioner that the injury has been caused by an accidental foul, so that if in the subsequent rounds the injury becomes so severe that the bout has to be stopped, the decision shall be awarded to the Contestant ahead on the score cards. If a bout has to be stopped as a result of an accidental foul before four (4) rounds have been completed, the bout will result in a technical draw. The fourth round shall be deemed to have ended when the bell rings ending the fourth round.

► Drugs and Stimulants:

The Universal Boxing Federation™ is very pleased and honored to be working hand to hand with VADA. The Voluntary Anti-Doping Association (VADA) is an organization that will offer and promote effective anti-doping practices and programs in boxing and mixed martial arts.
Boxing and mixed martial arts are state-regulated. Currently, few athletic commissions perform drug testing for performance-enhancing substances. When conducted, testing is not comprehensive, rarely unannounced and not a deterrent. Sports regulators do not have the man-power, time and funds to thoroughly carry out the task. VADA will be an opportunity for athletes to demonstrate their commitment to clean sport. For more information please visit http://www.vada-testing.org/

The use of illegal or performance-enhancing drugs or other stimulants before or during the championship contest by any of the contestants shall be sufficient cause for the disqualification of the contestant guilty of said use.
Any substance, other than plain water, given to a Contestant during the course of the bout is absolutely prohibited. A discretionary amount of lubricant may be used around the eyes; however, the use of lubricants, grease or any other foreign substance on the arms, legs or body is prohibited.
A discretionary use of coagulants approved by the Ringside Physician, such as Adrenalin (1/1000), may be allowed between rounds to stop bleeding of minor cuts or lacerations sustained by a Contestant during the course of the bout.
The use of “iron type” coagulants, such as Monsel’s solutions, are absolutely prohibited. The administration of any “iron type” coagulants by or to any Contestant is considered a violation and shall be grounds for disqualification.
The Universal Boxing Federation™ encourages all Local Governing Boxing Commissions to conduct anti-doping tests before or after the bout. If the Local Governing Boxing Commission conducts the tests, they shall be administered in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Local Governing Boxing Commission.
► Miscellaneous:

 

The Champion or his team will bring the Championship Belt to the ring, and will give it to the Referee who will pass it to the Universal Boxing Federation™ Commissioner at ringside. At the end of the contest, before the result is announced, the Universal Boxing Federation™ Commissioner and the Chairman of the Local Governing Boxing Commission or their representative, and the Promoter of their representative shall be invited into the ring to immediately proceed with the Championship Belt Ceremony.
The Universal Boxing Federation™ does not arrange, promote, organize or produce Championship Contests. It merely promulgates rules governing the contests, licenses the use of its name and awards the Championship belt to the winner.
The scheduling of bouts, safety standards, supplying of safety equipment, ambulances, evacuation and emergency procedures, the provision of doctors or any of the attendant and peripheral matters necessary to supervise and administer any bout for which it has licensed the use of the Universal Boxing Federation™ name are always arranged by the Promoters under the supervision and control and in accordance with the Rules of the Local Governing Boxing Commission. It is the obligation of the Promoters and/or the Local Governing Boxing Commission to meet all governmental safety standards and to pay for the entire boxing promotion.
It is explicitly and unequivocally ascertained that the successful Contestant of the Championship agrees to and adheres to the Universal Boxing Federation™ Rule that they must defend the said title within the said weight class within a six month period of winning or last defending the title or the Universal Boxing Federation™ reserves the right to declare the title vacant.
It is explicitly and unequivocally ascertained that the successful Contestant of the Championship agrees to and adheres to the Universal Boxing Federation™ Rule that should the Contestant compete for another title without agreement of the Universal Boxing Federation™, lose a bout for another title, or lose a non-title bout, the Universal Boxing Federation™ reserves the right to declare the title vacant.
The parties undersigned hereby agree to participate in the bout and hereby release, discharge and indemnify, and keep indemnified, the Universal Boxing Federation™, its officers, agents and employees, from all claims, actions, demands, judgments, and executions which the undersigned , its heirs, executors, administrators, or assignee’s may have, or claim to have, against the Universal Boxing Federation™, its officers, agents, and employees from all personal injuries, known or unknown, and injuries to property, real or personal, caused by either directly or indirectly, or arising out of the above sporting activities.
We the undersigned explicitly and unequivocally agree that we have read and understood the Universal Boxing Federation™ Rules & Regulations contained herein and shall adhere to these Rules & Regulations. We understand fully the inherent risks involved with the above sporting activity and fully waive all our rights and claims towards the Universal Boxing Federation™, cause of actions and assume all responsibilities and risks.
► Appeals:

 

Appeals of bout decisions or results must be made in writing, submit to the Universal Boxing Federation™ Board of Directors within 7 days following the scheduled bout, via email or fax.
Written appeal must include:
Date, time, and place of the sanctioned bout
Participants’ names, weight division, and belt competition was for
Referee’s name
UBF Commissioner’s Name in attendance at the sanctioned bout
Detailed reason and information regarding the appeal, including any evidence wishing to be admitted into consideration
Following the written appeal submission, a copy of the written appeal and payment of $300 USD must be forwarded to:
 

Universal Boxing Federation
Attn: Richard Spilotro
5207 N. Harlem Ave.
Chicago, IL 60656, USA
 

Within 7 days following the receipt of payment, the Board of Directors will review the information, consult necessary parties of the event and make a detailed decision on the appeal based on the Universal Boxing Federation™ Rules and Regulation.
If the appeal is overturned, then the appeals fee shall be returned to the appellant.